docs/examples/phonopy.md, before:

# ABACUS-Phonopy interface

[back to main page](../../README.md)


[Phonopy](https://github.com/phonopy/phonopy) is a powerful package to calculate phonon and related properties. It has provided interface with ABACUS. In the following, we take the FCC aluminum as an example:


1. Prepare a 'setting.conf' with following tags:
```
DIM=2 2 2
ATOM_NAME = Al    
```
- when three integers are specified after `DIM =`, a supercell elongated along axes of unit cell is created
- chemical symbols are specified after `ATOM_NAME =`, number of symbols should match `ntype` in ABACUS INPUT file

2. To obtain supercells ($2\times 2\times 2$) with displacements, run phonopy:
```
phonopy setting.conf --abacus -d
```
3. Calculate forces on atoms in the supercells with displacements. For each SCF calculation, you should specify `stru_file` with `STRU-{number}` and `cal_force=1` in INPUT in order to calculate force using ABACUS. Be careful not to relax the structures
```
echo 'stru_file ./STRU-001' >> INPUT
```
4. Then create 'FORCE_SETS' file using ABACUS inteface:
```
phonopy -f ./disp-{number}/OUT*/running*.log
```
5. Calculate the phonon dispersion:
```
phonopy band.conf --abacus
```
using the following `band.conf` file:
```
ATOM_NAME = Al
DIM = 2 2 2
MESH = 8 8 8
PRIMITIVE_AXES = 0 1/2 1/2  1/2 0 1/2  1/2 1/2 0
BAND= 1 1 1  1/2 1/2 1  3/8 3/8 3/4  0 0 0   1/2 1/2 1/2
BAND_POINTS = 21
BAND_CONNECTION = .TRUE.
```

Commit message:

doc: note to use the develop branch of phonopy

docs/examples/phonopy.md, after:

# ABACUS-Phonopy interface

[back to main page](../../README.md)


[Phonopy](https://github.com/phonopy/phonopy) (Note: please use the `develop` branch, rather than the `master` branch untile the abacus interface has been merged into phonopy's `master` branch.) is a powerful package to calculate phonon and related properties. It has provided interface with ABACUS. In the following, we take the FCC aluminum as an example:


1. Prepare a 'setting.conf' with following tags:
```
DIM=2 2 2
ATOM_NAME = Al    
```
- when three integers are specified after `DIM =`, a supercell elongated along axes of unit cell is created
- chemical symbols are specified after `ATOM_NAME =`, number of symbols should match `ntype` in ABACUS INPUT file

2. To obtain supercells ($2\times 2\times 2$) with displacements, run phonopy:
```
phonopy setting.conf --abacus -d
```
3. Calculate forces on atoms in the supercells with displacements. For each SCF calculation, you should specify `stru_file` with `STRU-{number}` and `cal_force=1` in INPUT in order to calculate force using ABACUS. Be careful not to relax the structures
```
echo 'stru_file ./STRU-001' >> INPUT
```
4. Then create 'FORCE_SETS' file using ABACUS inteface:
```
phonopy -f ./disp-{number}/OUT*/running*.log
```
5. Calculate the phonon dispersion:
```
phonopy band.conf --abacus
```
using the following `band.conf` file:
```
ATOM_NAME = Al
DIM = 2 2 2
MESH = 8 8 8
PRIMITIVE_AXES = 0 1/2 1/2  1/2 0 1/2  1/2 1/2 0
BAND= 1 1 1  1/2 1/2 1  3/8 3/8 3/4  0 0 0   1/2 1/2 1/2
BAND_POINTS = 21
BAND_CONNECTION = .TRUE.
```
