doc/install.md, before:

# Download and install

- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Build and install ABACUS with CMake](#build-and-install-abacus-with-cmake)
  - [Build ABACUS with make](#build-abacus-with-make)
- [Structure of the package](#structure-of-the-package)
  - [Structure of source code](#structure-of-source-code)
  [back to main page](../README.md)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

In order to compile ABACUS, users should make sure that the following prerequisites are
present:

- C++ compiler, supporting C++11. For example, [Intel C++ compiler](https://software.intel.com/enus/c-compilers) or [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/);
- Fortran compiler;
- MPI compiler. The recommended version are [Intel MPI](https://software.intel.com/enus/mpi-library) or [MPICH](https://www.mpich.org/);
- [Boost C++ library](https://www.boost.org/);
- The ScaLAPACK library. For example, [Intel MKL](https://software.intel.com/en-us/mkl)
or [Netlib ScaLAPACK](http://www.netlib.org/scalapack/);
- The [FFTW library](http://www.fftw.org/). ABACUS now supports both FFTW2 and
FFTW3;
- The [ELPA library](https://elpa.mpcdf.mpg.de/);
- The [CEREAL library](https://uscilab.github.io/cereal/);

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Build and install ABACUS with CMake

We recommend building ABACUS with `cmake` to avoid dependency issues.
ABACUS requires a minimum `cmake` version of `3.18`. Check the version of `cmake`  on your machine with:

```bash
cmake --version
```

You can specify the bin path of ABACUS binary to install by `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`. If no install prefix is specified, the binary will be installed to `/usr/local/bin/abacus` by default.

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${ABACUS_BIN_PATH}
```

You can provide path of each dependent package if the package cannot be automatically found by cmake.
Keys `LAPACK_DIR`, `SCALAPACK_DIR`, `ELPA_DIR`, `FFTW3_DIR`, `CEREAL_INCLUDEDIR`, `BOOST_INCLUDEDIR`, `MPI_CXX_COMPILER` and `MKL_DIR` are currently available to specify.
For example:

```bash
cmake -B build -DFFTW3_ROOT=/opt/fftw3 -DBOOST_INCLUDEDIR=/usr/include/boost
```

After configuring, start build and install by:

```bash
cmake --build build
cmake --install build
```

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Build ABACUS with make

<!-- Before starting to build the program, note that if you are using Intel MKL library, please set the following environmental variable:

```bash
export MKL_NUM_THREAD=1
``` -->

To compile the ABACUS program using legacy `make`, first edit the file `Makefile.vars` under `source` directory:

```bash
cd source/
vi Makefile.vars
```

Specify the location of the compiler and libraries present in your own machine:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS =
CPLUSPLUS_MPI =
FORTRAN =
LAPACK_DIR =
FFTW_DIR =
BOOST_DIR =
ELPA_DIR =
CEREAL_DIR =
```

For example, below is a case where the Intel C++ compiler, Intel MPI are used, along with Intel MKL library. The file Makefile.vars can be set as
follows:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS = icpc
CPLUSPLUS_MPI = mpiicpc
FORTRAN = ifort
LAPACK_DIR = /opt/intel/.../mkl/lib/intel64/
FFTW_DIR = /opt/fftw-3.3.8/
BOOST_DIR = /opt/boost/1.64.0/
ELPA_DIR = /opt/elpa/2016.05.004/
CEREAL_DIR = /opt/cereal/
```

Another example is where GCC, GFORTRAN, MPICH and ScaLAPACK are used:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS = g++
CPLUSPLUS_MPI = mpicxx
FORTRAN = gfortran
SCALAPACK_DIR = /opt/scalapack/
FFTW3_DIR = /opt/fftw-3.3.8/
BOOST_DIR = /opt/boost/1.64.0/
ELPA_DIR = /opt/elpa/2016.05.004/
CEREAL_DIR = /opt/cereal/
```

For this option, it is further required to set the parameter `LIBS` in `Makefile.system`:

```bash
LIBS = \
  -lgfortran -lm \
  -openmp -lpthread \
  ${SCALAPACK_DIR}/lib/libscalapack.a \
  /opt/lapack/lib/liblapack.a \
  /opt/blas/lib/libblas.a \
  /opt/blacs/lib/libblacs.a \
  ${FFTW_LIB} \
  ${ELPA_LIB} \

```

After modifying the `Makefile.vars` file, execute `make` to build the program.

```bash
make -j
```

After the compilation finishes without error messages (except perhaps for some warnings), an executable program `ABACUS.mpi` will be created in directory `bin/`.

[back to top](#download-and-install)

## Structure of the package

Under the ABACUS directory, there are the following subdirectories:

- cmake/

  which contains relevant files for compiling the code with cmake
- documents/

  which contains a copy of the manual in pdf format
- examples/

  which contains some examples
- source/

  which contains the source code and makefiles
- tests/

  which contains test examples
- tools/

  which currently contains the script for generating the numerical atomic orbitals

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Structure of source code

The source directory further contains the following folders, where the source files of ABACUS are located:

- module_base
- module_cell
- module_grid
- module_grid
- module_neighbor
- module_orbital
- obj
- src_external
- src_global
- src_io
- src_ions
- src_lcao
- src_parallel
- src_pdiag
- src_pw
- src_ri

[back to top](#download-and-install)

Commit message:

update documentation : libxc and hybrid functional

doc/install.md, after:

# Download and install

- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Build and install ABACUS with CMake](#build-and-install-abacus-with-cmake)
  - [Build ABACUS with make](#build-abacus-with-make)
    - [Link LIBXC](#link-libxc)
- [Structure of the package](#structure-of-the-package)
  - [Structure of source code](#structure-of-source-code)
  [back to main page](../README.md)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

In order to compile ABACUS, users should make sure that the following prerequisites are
present:

- C++ compiler, supporting C++11. For example, [Intel C++ compiler](https://software.intel.com/enus/c-compilers) or [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/);
- Fortran compiler;
- MPI compiler. The recommended version are [Intel MPI](https://software.intel.com/enus/mpi-library) or [MPICH](https://www.mpich.org/);
- [Boost C++ library](https://www.boost.org/);
- The ScaLAPACK library. For example, [Intel MKL](https://software.intel.com/en-us/mkl)
or [Netlib ScaLAPACK](http://www.netlib.org/scalapack/);
- The [FFTW library](http://www.fftw.org/). ABACUS now supports both FFTW2 and
FFTW3;
- The [ELPA library](https://elpa.mpcdf.mpg.de/);
- The [CEREAL library](https://uscilab.github.io/cereal/);

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Build and install ABACUS with CMake

We recommend building ABACUS with `cmake` to avoid dependency issues.
ABACUS requires a minimum `cmake` version of `3.18`. Check the version of `cmake`  on your machine with:

```bash
cmake --version
```

You can specify the bin path of ABACUS binary to install by `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`. If no install prefix is specified, the binary will be installed to `/usr/local/bin/abacus` by default.

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${ABACUS_BIN_PATH}
```

You can provide path of each dependent package if the package cannot be automatically found by cmake.
Keys `LAPACK_DIR`, `SCALAPACK_DIR`, `ELPA_DIR`, `FFTW3_DIR`, `CEREAL_INCLUDEDIR`, `BOOST_INCLUDEDIR`, `MPI_CXX_COMPILER` and `MKL_DIR` are currently available to specify.
For example:

```bash
cmake -B build -DFFTW3_ROOT=/opt/fftw3 -DBOOST_INCLUDEDIR=/usr/include/boost
```

After configuring, start build and install by:

```bash
cmake --build build
cmake --install build
```

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Build ABACUS with make

<!-- Before starting to build the program, note that if you are using Intel MKL library, please set the following environmental variable:

```bash
export MKL_NUM_THREAD=1
``` -->

To compile the ABACUS program using legacy `make`, first edit the file `Makefile.vars` under `source` directory:

```bash
cd source/
vi Makefile.vars
```

Specify the location of the compiler and libraries present in your own machine:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS =
CPLUSPLUS_MPI =
FORTRAN =
LAPACK_DIR =
FFTW_DIR =
BOOST_DIR =
ELPA_DIR =
CEREAL_DIR =
```

For example, below is a case where the Intel C++ compiler, Intel MPI are used, along with Intel MKL library. The file Makefile.vars can be set as
follows:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS = icpc
CPLUSPLUS_MPI = mpiicpc
FORTRAN = ifort
LAPACK_DIR = /opt/intel/.../mkl/lib/intel64/
FFTW_DIR = /opt/fftw-3.3.8/
BOOST_DIR = /opt/boost/1.64.0/
ELPA_DIR = /opt/elpa/2016.05.004/
CEREAL_DIR = /opt/cereal/
```

Another example is where GCC, GFORTRAN, MPICH and ScaLAPACK are used:

```bash
CPLUSPLUS = g++
CPLUSPLUS_MPI = mpicxx
FORTRAN = gfortran
SCALAPACK_DIR = /opt/scalapack/
FFTW3_DIR = /opt/fftw-3.3.8/
BOOST_DIR = /opt/boost/1.64.0/
ELPA_DIR = /opt/elpa/2016.05.004/
CEREAL_DIR = /opt/cereal/
```

For this option, it is further required to set the parameter `LIBS` in `Makefile.system`:

```bash
LIBS = \
  -lgfortran -lm \
  -openmp -lpthread \
  ${SCALAPACK_DIR}/lib/libscalapack.a \
  /opt/lapack/lib/liblapack.a \
  /opt/blas/lib/libblas.a \
  /opt/blacs/lib/libblacs.a \
  ${FFTW_LIB} \
  ${ELPA_LIB} \

```

After modifying the `Makefile.vars` file, execute `make` to build the program.

```bash
make -j
```

After the compilation finishes without error messages (except perhaps for some warnings), an executable program `ABACUS.mpi` will be created in directory `bin/`.

[back to top](#download-and-install)

#### Link LIBXC

The program compiled using the above instructions do not link with LIBXC and use exchange-correlation functionals as written in the ABACUS program. However, for some functionals (such as HSE hybrid functional), LIBXC is required.

To compile ABACUS with LIBXC, modifications should be made in three files:

First of all, in the file `Makefile.vars`, apart from the variables above, further provide the location of LIBXC:
```bash
LIBXC_DIR =
```

Then, in the file 'Makefile.system', add "${LIBXC_LIB}" to the `LIBS` flag, for example:
```
LIBS = -lifcore -lm -lpthread ${LAPACK_LIB} ${FFTW_LIB} ${ELPA_LIB} ${LIBXC_LIB}
```

Finally, in `Makefile`, add "-DUSE_LIBXC" to the `HONG` flag, for example:
```
HONG_MPI_SELINV_20210523 = -D__FP ${HONG_FFTW} ${HONG_LAPACK} -D__LCAO -D__MPI -D__OPENMP -D__SELINV -DMETIS -DEXX_DM=3 -DEXX_H_COMM=2 -DTEST_EXX_LCAO=0 -DTEST_EXX_RADIAL=1 -DUSE_CEREAL_SERIALIZATION -D__EXX -DUSE_LIBXC
HONG=${HONG_MPI_SELINV_20210523}
```

[back to top](#download-and-install)

## Structure of the package

Under the ABACUS directory, there are the following subdirectories:

- cmake/

  which contains relevant files for compiling the code with cmake
- documents/

  which contains a copy of the manual in pdf format
- examples/

  which contains some examples
- source/

  which contains the source code and makefiles
- tests/

  which contains test examples
- tools/

  which currently contains the script for generating the numerical atomic orbitals

[back to top](#download-and-install)

### Structure of source code

The source directory further contains the following folders, where the source files of ABACUS are located:

- module_base
- module_cell
- module_grid
- module_grid
- module_neighbor
- module_orbital
- obj
- src_external
- src_global
- src_io
- src_ions
- src_lcao
- src_parallel
- src_pdiag
- src_pw
- src_ri

[back to top](#download-and-install)
