docs/index.rst, before:

.. ABACUS documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Mar 11 10:42:27 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

=================================================
Welcome to ABACUS Documentations!
=================================================

ABACUS is an open-source DFT software supporting both plane wave 
and numerical atomic basis. Apart from single-point calculations, 
we also allow geometry optimization, ab-initio molecular dynamics 
and as well as molecular dynamics with classical force fields (CMD). 
ABACUS supports LDA, GGA and meta-GGA functionals, with hybrid 
functionals under development. We also provide a variety of functionalities 
for simulating complex materials, including DFT+U correction, VdW correction 
and implicit solvation model.

Written in C++, ABACUS strives to provide a general infrastructure 
to facilitate the application of novel machine learning-assisted DFT methods 
in molecular and material simulations. We have successfully implemented 
the DeePKS method, as well as interfaces to DP-GEN and DeepH.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Quick Start

   quick_start/easy_install
   quick_start/hands_on
   quick_start/input

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Advanced

   advanced/install
   advanced/scf/index
   advanced/pp_orb
   advanced/opt
   advanced/md
   advanced/elec_properties/index
   advanced/interface/index
   advanced/input_files/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Citing ABACUS

   CITATIONS

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Developing Team

   DevelopingTeam

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contributing to ABACUS

   CONTRIBUTING

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: FAQ

Commit message:

update overview statement, title of the documentation, and remove redundant input files (#1347)
* modified doc advanced.md

* added documentation for SCF complex environment part

* update the deepks interface documentation

* update the documentation

* update overview statement and remove INPUTs in examples/deepks/pw_H2O

Co-authored-by: hongriTianqi <hongriTianqi@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Wenfei Li <38569667+wenfei-li@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/index.rst, after:

.. ABACUS documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Mar 11 10:42:27 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

=================================================
ABACUS Documentation
=================================================

ABACUS (Atomic-orbital Based Ab-initio Computation at UStc) is 
an open-source computer code package based on density functional 
theory (DFT). The package utilizes both plane wave and numerical 
atomic basis sets with the usage of norm-conserving pseudopotentials 
to describe the interactions between nuclear ions and valence electrons. 
ABACUS supports LDA, GGA, meta-GGA, and hybrid functionals. Apart from 
single-point calculations, the package allows geometry optimizations 
and ab-initio molecular dynamics with various ensembles. The package 
also provides a variety of advanced functionalities for simulating materials, 
including the DFT+U, VdW corrections, and implicit solvation model, etc. 
In addition, ABACUS strives to provide a general infrastructure to facilitate 
the developments and applications of novel machine-learning-assisted DFT methods 
(DeePKS, DP-GEN, DeepH, etc.) in molecular and material simulations. 

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Quick Start

   quick_start/easy_install
   quick_start/hands_on
   quick_start/input

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Advanced

   advanced/install
   advanced/scf/index
   advanced/pp_orb
   advanced/opt
   advanced/md
   advanced/elec_properties/index
   advanced/interface/index
   advanced/input_files/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Citing ABACUS

   CITATIONS

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Developing Team

   DevelopingTeam

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contributing to ABACUS

   CONTRIBUTING

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: FAQ
